# IoT-Based-Fire-detection-system-with-andriod-application
IOT Based fire Alarm System is like device consists of several sensors that look after the surrounding condition and when any abnormal act like burning something or smoking occur it alerts the controller to aware the owner or call anyone for rescue by buzzer. Our Microcontroller which is Arduino greps the data from sensors that are MQ135, MQ7, flame sensor, Humidity and temperature (DHT22). Microcontroller (Arduino) have ability to ADC converter that converts the analog signals to digital signals which received from the sensor’s end. The controller is programmed to getting the data from sensors also we could set the temperature & the smoke reach a threshold limits.
After getting the data from sensors, controllers cast all data to the thingspeaks which act as our server via Wi-Fi module ESP8266-01 mini. Thingspeaks make logs frequently after every 10secs. With the help of those logs that made by thingspeaks owner will be aware about the situation of its place at remote location. 
After that an andriod application named IOT base fire detection system fetch all the data from thingspeaks in the JSON format and filter the useful data. All the data fetched from thingspeaks is set by threshold limits which shows the owner that “there is no fire” or “there is no smoke/Co gas” and humidity and temperature also.
For the sake of security and awaking owner an alarm is set when our device feels any abnormal behavior that keep the owner alert and secure.
